.TH DANGIT 1 "June 2026" "dangit" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dangit \- find git repos with unfinished work
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dangit
[\fIPATH\fR] [\fIflags\fR]
.br
.B dangit scan
[\fIPATH\fR] [\fIflags\fR]
.br
.B dangit resolve
[\fIPATH\fR] [\fIflags\fR]
.br
.B dangit theme import
\fIPATH\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dangit
sweeps the directories beneath
.I PATH
(default: the current directory) for Git repositories and flags every one with
uncommitted changes, commits not pushed to its upstream, or commits waiting to
be pulled. The current branch is shown for each flagged repository.
.PP
On an interactive terminal the bare
.B dangit
command opens a browser: live scan progress, then a fuzzy-filterable list of
flagged repositories you can act on. When output is not a terminal (a pipe, or
.BR --plain ),
it prints a plain report instead. The exit code is
.B 1
when any repository needs attention,
.B 0
when none do, and
.B 2
on a usage error \(em handy in scripts and CI.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan
Print a report; never interactive. Use
.B --json
for a stable machine-readable envelope.
.TP
.B resolve
Bring flagged repositories to a clean, synced state: auto-commit any
uncommitted changes with a generated message, rebase-pull from the upstream,
then push. It is a dry run that prints the plan unless
.B --yes
is given, never force-pushes, never auto-merges a conflict, and refuses when
the network is disabled.
.TP
.B theme import \fIPATH\fR
Replace the active theme with a portable
.I .theme
file written by any termtheme-based app. The previous theme is backed up.
.TP
.B version
Print build version information.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-timeout-secs \fIN\fR
Per-repo remote-check timeout in seconds (default 10).
.TP
.B \-\-no-network
Skip remote checks; behind status is reported as
.IR stale .
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine-readable output (scan).
.TP
.B \-\-plain
Force a plain report even on a TTY.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-no-alt-screen
Render the browser inline rather than on the alternate screen.
.TP
.B \-\-theme-file \fIPATH\fR
Load the theme from
.IR PATH .
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Actually perform resolve actions (default: dry run).
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-message \fIMSG\fR
Commit message for resolve (default: generated).
.SH TUI KEYS
.TP
.B Up/Down, j/k
Move the selection.
.TP
.B /
Filter the list; Esc clears, Enter applies.
.TP
.B Enter
Show the selected repository's detail (full git status).
.TP
.B s
Open a shell in the repository directory.
.TP
.B e
Open the repository in
.B $VISUAL
or
.BR $EDITOR .
.TP
.B y
Copy the repository's absolute path to the clipboard.
.TP
.B R
Resolve the selected repository (with a confirmation prompt).
.TP
.B r
Re-scan.
.TP
.B q, Esc, Ctrl-C
Quit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DANGIT_TIMEOUT_SECS
Default per-repo remote-check timeout.
.TP
.B DANGIT_NO_NETWORK
Skip remote checks when truthy.
.TP
.B DANGIT_NO_COLOR, NO_COLOR
Disable color.
.TP
.B DANGIT_THEME_FILE
Theme config file path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dangit/theme.conf
Default theme configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
